---
title: "Perfect Secrecy"
slug: "/perfect-secrecy"
---

# Perfect Secrecy

## Encryption Scheme Definition
An encryption scheme consists of three main algorithms:

1. **Key Generation (Gen):** A probabilistic algorithm generating uniformly a key *k* from a key space *K*.
2. **Encryption Algorithm (Enc):** The encryption algorithm *Enc* takes a key *k ∈ K* and a message *m ∈ M* as input and outputs a ciphertext *c*. It can be probabilistic, meaning that encrypting the same message *m* with the same key *k* might produce different ciphertexts on different runs. This process is denoted as *c ← Enck(m)*. If *Enc* is deterministic, it is denoted as *c := Enck(m)*. The set *C* represents all possible ciphertexts generated by *Enck(m)*, across all choices of *k*, *m*, and any randomness used by *Enc*.
3. **Decryption Algorithm (Dec):** A deterministic algorithm recovering *m* from *c* using *k*.

Key aspects of encryption schemes:
- **Perfect Correctness:** Decryption always recovers the original message, implying that the decryption process is deterministic.
- The distribution of keys *K* is determined by the encryption scheme, while the distribution of messages *M* reflects the context and adversary’s uncertainty about which messages are likely to be sent.
- Ciphertexts *C* are determined by the joint distribution of *K* and *M*, reflecting the encryption process.

## Perfect Secrecy

### Prerequisites:
- The adversary knows the probability distribution of messages (*M*), meaning they understand the likelihood of different messages being sent.
- The adversary is aware of the encryption scheme being used.
- The key shared by the communicating parties is the only unknown to the adversary.
- In this attack, one of the honest parties encrypts a chosen message, transmits the resulting ciphertext, and the adversary eavesdrops on the communication, gaining access to the ciphertext without any other context or information.

Perfect secrecy ensures that observing a ciphertext *c* does not provide any information about the plaintext message *m*. This means the adversary’s knowledge of *m*, after observing *c*, is identical to their prior knowledge.

### Formal Definition
An encryption scheme *(Gen, Enc, Dec)* with message space *M* is perfectly secret if for every probability distribution for *M*, every message *m ∈ M*, and every ciphertext *c ∈ C* for which *Pr[C = c] > 0*, it holds that:

> *Pr[M = m | C = c] = Pr[M = m].*

